
I found that there are several confusions regarding p 43 and 44 in lecture 3, both concerning hypothesis testing. So I try to give more explanation here.
Basically, for hypothesis tests, we’ll take the following steps to examine whether we accept or reject a hypothesis.
First, we’ll assume that the hypothesis holds. Then, we test how likely we’ll observe some small-probability event. Next, we’ll see if the probability, namely p-value, is smaller than the threshold we set, e.g., 10% or 5%. If we find it is smaller than the threshold, say events with small probability occurs, we’ll reject the hypothesis, otherwise accept.
For example, in p43, we assume \mu is indeed 5 and examine the small-probability event |\bar{X}-\mu|>=0.12 (Because based on the law of large number, we know that the sample mean of X should be very close to the expected value \mu, say |\bar{X}-\mu| should be very small). It is seen that P(|\bar{X}-\mu|>=0.12)=7.18%< 10%, which means that it is indeed a small-probability event that rarely occur. However, the case is that we observed |\bar{X}-\mu|=0.12. Hence, we’ll have to reject the hypothesis at level of significance 10%. Similarly, because 7.18%>5%, we’ll accept the hypothesis at level of significance 5%.
We can use another way to understand the hypothesis test on page 43 given significance level 10%.
Because we know that z=(\bar{X}-\mu)/(\sigma/\root{n}) is standard normal N(0,1), by central limit theorem. If we want to test at significance level 0.1. Then, we can assume that P(z)>=0.9 (it is very likely, larger than the threshold, that \mu and \bar{X} are close). Then, we find z<=1.64, say \bar{X} should be in the range of [4.89,6.64]. However, we observe \bar{X}=4.88, leading to a contradiction. Then, we should reject the hypothesis.
In page 44, we assume that the expected value indeed satisfies \mu <=4.8 and further examine the small-probability event \bar{X}>=4.847 (it is a small probability event because according to the law of large number, \bar{X} should be close to \mu). We find P(\bar(X)>=4.847)=5.48%, which is larger than 5% and less than 10%. Hence, we’ll accept the hypothesis at significance level 5% while reject it at 10%. It is  because the sample mean of X equal to 4.847 is considered as a small probability event at significance level 10% while it is not at significance level 5%
