Gap year is a prevalent option in some countries for students who just finished their high school studies. While some students just follow the trend, its advantages and disadvantages should be carefully examined.

Taking a year gap between two studying stages can be beneficial in several aspects. First, youngsters may utilize such a chance to have panoramic view on the world. As they may not ever have opportunity to have a close look on the world they live in, they may oversimplify the society to have impractical assumptions and thus run into erroneous way in their university studies. It turns out that having a year for travelling or working can deepen their understanding on the underlying sophistication of the world. Apart from gaining experience, it will also have inner benefit by having one-year time for self-reflection. Gap year provides them with a relatively free period than attending university right after their high school. With more spare time, they can better summarize their past experience and plan for future.

However, taking a gap year can also have detrimental impact on young people. Compared with school, the society is imbued with various temptations, some of which may even dangerous. High school graduates are hardly equipped with the ability to identify vicious information. Therefore, it can be fairly hazardous for them to explore society solely. Besides, improperly scheduled gap year may also lessen their passion for pursuiting higher diploma. Since some students may not have the perseverance to rejoin busy studying life after one year of freedom.

To sum up, taking a gap year have both pros and cons. Youngsters ought to balance between the opportunity of obtaining experience and risks.