# **经济学人2020年2月8日刊句子摘抄**
---

> ## As an emergency measure China’s central bank injected extra liquidity into the financial system, the biggest such one-day intervention since 2004, and cut some interest rates. 

As开头的句子，结构不错。 原语序应该为: *China’s central bank injected extra liquidity into the financial system as an emergency measure. It is the biggest one-day intervention since 2004, and (CCB) cut some interest rates.*
****
> ## Keeping to one of its pledges in the “phase one” trade deal with America, China’s government said it would cut tariffs on $75bn-worth of American exports.

pledge:n,v,保证，誓言，用...抵押
tariffs：n: 关税
***
> ## Even as ceos’ authority is being redefined, a shift is under way in where firms operate.

> ## This is a promise, made during a long economic expansion, that they will not be able to keep.

> ## Every firm is different, but those hiring a ceo, or aspiring to be one, should prize a few qualities. Mastering the tricky, creative and more collaborative game of allocating intangible capital is essential. 

prize:v.高度重视  
capital：n.资本   
intangible: 难以形容（或理解的）；不易度量的，无形的；
***
> ## As they repay their debt to society, many Hong Kong prisoners are put to work making useful items like road signs, uniforms, furniture—and the surgical masks that now ob scure the faces of almost everyone on the city’s subdued streets.

> ## To help stop the spread of the Wuhan coronavirus, which has infected over 28,000 people worldwide, prisoners will now be employed round the clock, boosting mask production by as much as 60%.

这两句的顺序很有意思（倒装？）
around the clock：不分昼夜;日夜不停
***
> ## Some speculator snow fret about its financial resilience, noting its exorbitant property market, where prices have tripled in ten years, and top-heavy banking system,whichhas assets worth 845% of gdp.

> ## As protests intensified last year, bets against HongKong’s currency, which has been firmly pegged to the dollar since 1983, became unusually popular. 

又是As开头
fret:v,磨损，腐蚀，焦急.n,烦躁，烦恼，腐蚀处
peg：v.与...挂钩

***
> ## Much of the city’s livelihood depends on the economic virtues of openness and propinquity. It excels as both an entrepot and a rendezvous, where people from far-flung places can gather in jam-packed proximity. 


> ## The costs of other, cheaper ways to boost capacity, such as double-decker carriages and longer trains, have increased, along with the cost of engineering wider tracks and higher tunnels, and of buying more property around stations.

扩句的方式，句子的组织结构

***
> ## What once would have been flattered to be called a hard-scrabble border town is now home to 200,000 people, giant outdoor video screens extolling the glories of a new Silk Road, and restaurants serving sashimi and European wine.

extol：v，赞美，吹捧

***

> ## Among its investors is China’s cosco, one of the world’s shipping giants.

among开头

> ## The physical and psychological distance between Europe and East Asia is shrinking as the sparsely populated expanse at the heart of Eurasia is being wrangled,through new infrastructure,to manageable size.

sparsely：adv：稀松地   
wrangle：n,v 争论（？放在这里讲不通）

***
> ## South-East Asia has long been important to China’s economy—not least because of its 30m “overseas Chinese”, many with capital and management nous.

"many"的省略 many (people)
***
> ## cosco took a long lease on two terminals of the container port with a promise to build a third. Soon, the contrast in productivity between those and the remaining Greek-run one, plagued by inefficiency and powerful unions, was stark.

句子的组织方式
plague：v：给…造成长时间的痛苦(或麻烦); 困扰; 折磨; 
第二局的结构 S，补充，be ...
***
> ## Djibouti has not been fussy about hosting bases, so long as it makes money from them, and China’s sits not far from those of the United States, France and Japan.

so long as：只要; “as/so long as”的变体
***

> ## Moreover, once bunkering facilities are installed, and ships start to call in to refuel, Hambantota may no longer be the white elephant it is today.

white elephant：华而不实的东西
***
> ## It evokes an image of China “going forth to encompass the world on land and sea, at once opening to the world and binding the world more closely to China, in a balanced and harmonious way.”

> ## First, by abandoning the classical intimations implied in the Chinese phrase, a sense of China’s return to historical greatness has been removed for the benefit of foreign audiences.

找到主语. 这两句扩句、组织方式很好。  
for the benefit of： 为了...的利益
***

> ## Second, a power that wants to conceal from other countries what, in terms of loftier ambitions for global pre-eminence, it is signalling to its own people, could do worse than choose a bland, unthreatening word like “initiative”.

loftier：巍峨的; 高耸的;傲慢的; 高傲的; lofty的比较级
bland：平淡的
这句话有点...看不懂。特别是那个“what”
****
> ## Asked to craft a metaphor for all that the world admires and fears about modern China, a novelist could hardly improve on the coronavirus hospitals now rising, at fantastic speeds, in disease-stricken cities.

****
> ## Yet if China’s resolve impresses outsiders, the dark side of one party rule also stands exposed.

Yet句。从··

***

> ## The whole hospital, emptied of ordinary patients and ringed by guards and warning signs, will soon have room for between 370 and 850 patients, depending on how many need strict isolation.

> ## The issues surrounding any potential vaccine make questions about medicines to treat those who have become gravely ill particularly acute.

又是扩句的例子。缩句：*1:The hospital will soon have room*
    *2: The issues make questions acute.*
ringed:v：包围，环绕
****

> ## Should hasty decisions lead to products that are not completely safe, people’s faith in vaccines could be damaged.

should....： 一旦.../如果...

****
> ## As economic uncertainty and low interest rates pushed gold prices up by 19% last year, the quickest rate since 2010, goldminers’ share prices surged, too—and twice as fast.


> ## That makes parts easier to find should they fall off in a field, which is a sure sign that farmers are at work here, with roboticists and scientists.

同上，should：一旦/如果
which指代整件事。
***

> ## Having spotted a weed, there are several ways to try to kill it.

独立主格结构
***
> ## It provides the most comprehensive analysis yet of where to find this damaging disruption to dna and, by unpicking the genetics of what makes cancer tick, just how hard it will be to tame.


> ## At 9.40pm what had passed for jollity came to a sudden end as the drone of airraid sirens echoed through the streets.

what作主语从句
****
> ## Winston Churchill’s omission of the bombing campaign when reeling off British military triumphs in his victory speech was telling, as was the post-war reluctance to award its veterans a campaign medal, a slight still felt deeply by their families.

后半段没看懂 omission was telling ..(?) telling的宾语是什么？
a slight still 是什么意思？

